What are XOPs?

An XOP ("external operation") is a piece of separately compiled code
that IGOR can call to accomplish things that are not built into the Igor
application program.

To create an XOP, you need the optional Igor XOP Toolkit and a C/C++
development system.

You do not need the Igor XOP Toolkit to use an XOP created by
WaveMetrics or a third party. Igor Pro comes with a number of XOPs in
the Igor Extensions and More Extensions folders.

Using XOPs

XOPs that are in the Igor Extensions folder when Igor is launched are
available for use. For example, the Load General Binary and Load Excel
File items in the Load Waves submenu of the Data menu are added by XOPs
that are placed by the Igor Pro installer in the Igor Extensions folder.

Igor Pro comes with XOPs for other jobs such as communicating via serial
or GPIB ports, loading MATLAB, Nicolet, HDF5 and other files, slicing 3D
data . . . .

To use an XOP that is not in the Igor Extensions folder, make a shortcut
for the XOP file and put it in the Igor Pro User Files\Igor Extensions
folder. Then restart Igor Pro.

See the "Igor Pro User Files" help topic for details about locating this folder. 

Most of the XOPs supplied by WaveMetrics come with documentation in the
form of a help file. The help file, if available, is in the same folder
as the XOP. Help for XOP-supplied operations and functions also appears
in the Igor Help Browser.

Writing XOPs

Here are some things for which you might want to write an XOP:
    To process or compute statistics on one or more waves.
    To import data from a file format that Igor does not support.
    To do data acquisition directly into Igor waves.
    To automatically communicate with a remote computer.

If you are a C programmer and would like to extend Igor with your own
XOP you will need to purchase the Igor XOP Toolkit from WaveMetrics.
This toolkit contains documentation on writing XOPs, files that supply
support routines and source code for several sample XOPs.

For details, see:

    http://www.wavemetrics.com/products/xoptoolkit/xoptoolkit.htm

We announce new and updated XOPs on the Igor mailing list.
For instructions on joining the Igor mailing list, see:

    http://www.wavemetrics.com/support/mlist.htm


